
Outcome Measures and Follow-up

There were 3 co-primary endpoints. The first was the number of patients with disease progression, defined as hospitalization or death. The second primary end point was the Patient Acceptable Symptom State (PASS), defined as the value of symptoms the patient considered to be well-being thresholds of pain and function. Our study incorporated the most widely used anchoring question to identify PASS cut-off points, which was: “Taking into account all your daily activities, do you consider your current state satisfactory in relation to pain level and functional impairment?” The response options were “Yes” or “No” [35][36](34)[37]. Treatment success was defined as no disease progression, or a PASS answered in the affirmative on days 3, 5, or 7 of follow-up. The third endpoint was the change from the baseline in the patient overall self-assessment, which was determined by the response to the question: Considering all the ways in which illness and health conditions may affect you at this time, please indicate below how you are doing? The response options were measured on the 0–10 VAS, from ‘very well’ (score of 0) to ‘very poorly’ (score of 10). That question is validated in the Routine Assessment of Patient Index Data 3 (RAPID3), which is a pooled index of the three patient-reported Core Data Set measures of the American College of Rheumatology, and it has previously been used to determine the activity of autoimmune diseases, degenerative diseases, such as osteoarthritis (18), and infectious diseases with a strong component of general malaise, such as chikungunya fever (37). That end point is similar to the symptom severity score (self-assessed using a 10-point VAS) recently used in a clinical trial that evaluated the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine in non-hospitalized patients with COVID-19 [38]. The secondary endpoints were changes from the baseline in different types of body pain (arthralgia, myalgia, headache, and sore throat), or more exactly, the difference between the values at enrollment and on days 3, 5, and 7 of follow-up. Pain was measured on the 0–10 VAS (27). Intensity of pain was recorded, from ‘no pain’ (score of 0) to ‘worst imaginable pain’ (score of 10). The VAS was selected because it is the validated scale that best evaluates pain in diseases (28,29), at present, and because it has also been used as a primary endpoint in other clinical trials (30). Patients completed the previously validated fatigue VAS (0–10 scale) [37], which states: “How much of a problem has unusual fatigue or tiredness been for you today” and was anchored from 0 (fatigue is not a problem) to 10 (fatigue is a major problem). Daily coughing episodes were reported by the patient on a numerical scale from 0 to 20. If there were more than 20 episodes, they were registered as 20. Dyspnea was determined once a day through the Borg scale, from 0 to 10, in which 0 is no dyspnea and 10 is extremely severe dyspnea [37]. Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dizziness, conjunctivitis, rhinorrhea, exanthema, skin rash, and loss of sense of smell or taste were catalogued as present or absent for each day of follow-up. Adverse events were monitored by the researchers through anamnesis and abnormal routine laboratory test results. Follow-up was carried out for at least 20 days or until patient outcome (cure or death). Daily follow-up was suspended in the hospitalized patients, and from the day of hospital admission, their registers were considered lost data and were not considered in the analysis from that day forward, with the exception of the PASS, in which its subsequent registers were reported as a negative acceptable symptom state. Nevertheless, the general aspects of those patients were registered, such as hospitalization and outcome (cure or death).
