 Main Outcomes and Measures  Primary outcome was time to clinical improvement within 28 days, defined as patient discharged alive or reduction of 2 points on a 6-point disease severity scale (ranging from 1 [discharge] to 6 [death]). Secondary outcomes included 28-day mortality, time to discharge, and the rate of viral polymerase chain reaction (PCR) results turned from positive at baseline to negative at up to 72 hours.


Outcome Measures

The primary end point was time to clinical improvement within a 28-day period. Clinical improvement was defined as patient discharge or a reduction of 2 points on a 6-point disease severity scale.13 The scale was defined as follows: 6 points, death; 5 points, hospitalization plus extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) or invasive mechanical ventilation; 4 points, hospitalization plus noninvasive ventilation or high-flow supplemental oxygen; 3 points, hospitalization plus supplemental oxygen (not high-flow or noninvasive ventilation); 2 points, hospitalization with no supplemental oxygen; 1 point, hospital discharge.

Patient discharge criteria included body temperature returned to normal for longer than 3 days, respiratory symptoms significantly improved without the need for oxygen support, and 2 consecutive negative PCR test results from nasopharyngeal swabs at least 24 hours apart.

Secondary clinical outcomes were as follows: (1) 28-day mortality, including analysis of time from randomization to death; (2) duration of hospitalization, including analyses of time from randomization to discharge, time from admission to discharge, and 28-day discharge rates; and (3) conversion of nasopharyngeal swab viral PCR results from positive at baseline to negative at follow-up assessed at 24, 48, and 72 hours. Once nasopharyngeal swab viral PCR testing yielded negative results 2 times consecutively, no further testing was performed.  A post hoc analysis was added to compare rates of improvement at days 7, 14, and 28.

This clinical trial was an open-label, randomized clinical study. To avoid assessment bias, the evaluation of clinical outcomes was performed by an investigator who was blind to the study group allocation.