Main outcome measure Negative conversion of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 by 28 days, analysed according to the intention to treat principle. Adverse events were analysed in the safety population in which hydroxychloroquine recipients were participants who received at least one dose of hydroxychloroquine and hydroxychloroquine non-recipients were those managed with standard of care alone.

Outcome

The primary outcomes for this trial were whether patients had negative conversion of SARS-CoV-2 by 28 days and whether patients with severe covid-19 had clinical improvement by 28 days. However, as the trial was stopped early and only two patients with severe disease were enrolled, results on clinical improvement are not presented. We defined negative conversion of SARS-CoV-2 as two consecutive reports of a negative result for SARS-CoV-2 at least 24 hours apart without a subsequent report of a positive result by the end of the study. We considered the date of the first negative report as the date of negative conversion. In the original protocol, the primary endpoint was prespecified as the “Negative conversion rate by Day 10” (approved by the ethics committee on 6 February 2020). However, with the increasing knowledge of covid-19 from our clinical practice, we realised that the duration of SARS-CoV-2 in respiratory samples of many patients was longer than 10 days, recently highlighted by a detailed virological study.14 We therefore modified our primary outcome to test whether patients had a negative conversion of SARS-CoV-2 by 28 days (approved by the ethics committee on 17 February 2020). Probability of negative conversion at day 4, 7, 10, 14, or 21 was specified as a secondary outcome in the protocol, but this does not appear on the trial registration list. The listed secondary outcome in the trial registration was adverse events coded using the latest version of Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities coding dictionary, recorded in standard medical terminology and graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events.

Other prespecified secondary outcomes not listed in the trial registration but included in the protocol were the probabilities of alleviation of clinical symptoms; improvement of C reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, tumour necrosis factor α, interleukin 6, and absolute blood lymphocyte count; improvement of lung lesions on chest radiology; all cause death; and disease progression in patients with mild to moderate disease. The time frame for these secondary outcomes was from randomisation to 28 days. Prespecified secondary outcomes for patients with severe disease are not listed here but are included in the protocol. Owing to the early termination of our study, we could not justify the results from these analyses with an underpowered sample size and therefore decided not to emphasise them in this paper to avoid misinterpretation. The only one presented here is the alleviation of clinical symptoms within 28 days, which is an important outcome of interest prespecified in our protocol. The definition of the alleviation of clinical symptoms was resolving from fever to an axillary temperature of 36.6°C or below, normalisation of SpO2 (>94% on room air), and disappearance of respiratory symptoms including nasal congestion, cough, sore throat, sputum production, and shortness of breath.