Study arms and treatment plans

Patients were randomly divided into two treatment groups, a case group comprising 56 patients and a control group comprising 55 patients. On the first day of admission, laboratory studies including complete blood count and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) were performed. The case group received oral AZM 500 mg daily, oral LPV/r 400/100 mg twice daily and oral HCQ 400 mg daily. The control group received oral LPV/r 400/100 mg twice daily and oral HCQ 400 mg daily; for both treatment groups, all medications were administered for 5 days.

On the first day of admission, for patients assigned to the case treatment group, the risk for ventricular arrhythmia in concurrent treatment with HCQ and AZM was calculated based on the proposed guideline by the ACC [23], and patients with a score of ≥7 were excluded from the study.

Patients were assessed by daily measurements of core body temperature, respiratory rate, heart rate and peripheral capillary oxygen saturation (SpO2). Daily electrocardiogram (ECG) studies were also conducted to monitor possible evolution of heart rate-corrected QT (QTc) interval prolongation, in which case, treatment with AZM and HCQ would have been stopped. For correction of the QT interval, Bazett's formula (QTc = QT/√RR) was used [24]. In case of deterioration in general and/or pulmonary condition, methylprednisolone was prescribed [25]. Patients were discharged when they achieved a stable SpO2 > 92%, had no respiratory distress and were afebrile for 3 consecutive days. The primary endpoints in this trial were a decrease in mortality, duration of hospitalisation and need for intensive care unit (ICU) admission. Secondary endpoints were determined as improvements in SpO2 and vital signs as well as the general wellbeing of the patient.

Sample size calculation was performed for non-inferiority tests of difference between two group proportions. We assumed an effectiveness of 65% for the intervention group and effectiveness of 50% for the control group. We also assumed a margin of non-inferiority of at least 10% between the two groups. With these assumptions, a sample size of 48 cases in each group was calculated. After consideration of a dropout rate of 10%, the total sample size of 110 cases was calculated. The power of the study was determined as 90% (G*Power, Erdfelder, Faul, & Buchner, 1996).