 Procedures and Outcomes
Patients were registered, after giving informed consent to participate, in a web-based eCRF (ORACLE clinical), their baseline clinical data collected and then randomly assigned 1:1 to the investigational treatment, stratified by study site. CP had to be administered immediately after randomization (day 1). Inpatients were assessed daily until hospital discharge and at days 15 and 29. Assessments in discharged patients were performed either as outpatient consultations or by phone. The patient’s clinical status was recorded using the seven-category ordinal COVID-19 scale: 1, not hospitalized, no limitations on activities; 2, not hospitalized, limitation on activities; 3, hospitalized, not requiring supplemental oxygen; 4, hospitalized, requiring supplemental oxygen; 5, hospitalized, on non-invasive ventilation or high flow oxygen devices; 6, hospitalized, on invasive mechanical ventilation or ECMO and 7, death. The primary outcome was the proportion of patients in categories 5, 6 or 7 at day 15 of the study. Key secondary outcomes were time to improvement of one category on the ordinal scale; mean change in the ordinal scale from baseline to days 3, 5, 8, 11, 15 and 29; proportion of patients in categories 5, 6 or 7 at day 29; mortality at days 15 and 29; duration of hospital stay; number of days alive and free from oxygen support; number of days alive and free from mechanical ventilation. Serial naso/oropharyngeal swabs and blood samples were collected at days 3, 5, 8, 11, 15 and 29, and tested for SARS-CoV- 2 RNA by RT-PCR assay. Serum samples were tested at the same time points for anti SARS-
CoV-2 IgG. Neutralizing antibody titers were determined at baseline in those patients with positive IgG results. Serious adverse events (AE), grade 3 or 4 AE and infusion related AE (within 24 hours after administration) were collected. Investigators were instructed to actively monitor for the appearance of predefined AE of Special Interest: TRALI and ADE (antibody-dependent enhancement of infection).
