Procedures and Outcome
The clinical and demographic characteristics of the study participants were obtained before enrolled in the study. All patients were followed-up from day 0 to day 3, improvement, hospital discharge, or death, and one week after hospital discharge, which was scheduled at three or four consecutive visit points. Clinical signs of the patients including heart rate, body temperature, blood pressure, oxygen saturation (SO2), and, dyspnea, cough, gastrointestinal involvement (GI) symptoms, myalgia, chest pain, and BORG score were assessed before and after treatment (by 3 days of treatment and discharge time). The need on oxygen therapy (nasal cannula, mask oxygen, reserve mask, noninvasive ventilation (NIV), and invasive ventilation) was recorded before and after treatment (by 3 days of treatment and discharge time). CT scan findings were also assessed before and one week after treatment only in patients agreed to give informed consent. Other clinical outcomes including mortality rate, the duration of hospitalization in improved patients, and the time (in days) from the initiation of treatment to death were assessed in each group. Laboratory test results including complete blood count (CBC), C-reactive protein (CRP), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), vein blood gas analysis (VBG) including PH, Bicarbonate (HCO3), and partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PCO2), IL-6, Ferritin, Troponin, D-dimer, lactic acid dehydrogenase (LDH), and creatine phosphokinase (CPK) were recorded before and after treatment (by 3 days of treatment and discharge time). Clinical signs of the improved patients, including cough, GI symptoms, myalgia, chest pain, and BORG score, were assessed one-week after discharge time.
All data were considered during the study and follow-up time and recorded on case report forms (CRFs) and the Excel database. The primary endpoint was the time of clinical improvement and discharge from the hospital or death whichever came first. Hospital discharge was determined according to the patients clinical and laboratory findings. Improvement was defined as BORG score>3, improved dyspnea, stopped fever for 72 hours, SO2> 93%, tolerated oral regimen (PO), normal urinary output and reduced CRP level without any treatment side effects.
